#summary Downloads FAQ

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

== Why shouldn't I keep deleting and re-uploading a project download? =

You can delete files from the download section if you accidentally uploaded the wrong file or the file is corrupted.  You need to notice this problem fairly quickly, before too much time has passed or too many people have downloaded the file.

After a file has been released for some time, it becomes part of your project's history and should no longer be deleted.  Offering [http://google-opensource.blogspot.com/2008/05/best-practices-archival-downloads.html archival downloads] means that users can trust that the file will always be available from that URL. At that point, instead of deleting the file, you should only label it as "Deprecated", which removes it from the list of currently supported downloads. 

Deprecated files still count toward your project download space quota.  Rather than deleting content to manage your quota usage, please ask for more quota by following the instructions on the "New Download" page.

== Are there any restrictions to how much bandwidth a download can consume? ==

No, but excessive bandwidth usage will be throttled and malicious usage will be blocked.

We also discourage direct references to javascript files hosted on the download service from html. This is because this path is not optimized for production web traffic. As your traffic increases, you run the risk of experiencing failures on your current requests. Instead, we encourage alternatives such as using the AJAX Libraries API (http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxlibs/) which have better latency/scalability characteristics for such scenarios or  hosting the file on your own server.

*BAD CODE. DO NOT DO THIS!*
<code>
<script src="http://jqueryjs.googlecode.com/files/jquery-1.3.2.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
</code>

*EXCELLENT*
<code>
<script src="http://www.google.com/jsapi"></script> 
<script> 
  google.load("jquery", "1"); 
</script> 
</code>

*OK*
<code>
<script src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.3/jquery.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
</code>

If you are hosting a Google gadget, *please proxy all your content* so that it is cached effectively. For more information, see the Gadget API reference (http://code.google.com/apis/gadgets/docs/reference/#gadgets.io)

== Does Google Code host distros (e.g Linux distributions)? ==

Project Hosting on Google Code does not support the hosting of distros (ISOs, CD/DVD image files). Instead, we recommend hosting only the specific pieces that you are developing, i.e. import the kernel and panel source in the SVN repository and provide binary builds for those specific packages in our downloads repository.

This is because distros really need a different set of tools from what we offer for software development. It is an area where we do not have good tools and think that developing such tools would be a distraction from our main [http://code.google.com/p/support/wiki/MakingHostingBetter objectives].

If you would like to see the Project Hosting team focus on improving support for hosting distros, please star Issue 3148.

== Can Google Analytics be used to track downloads? ==

Yes. Once you have set your Google Analytics account in the Administer -> Project Metadata tab, Google Analytics events will be generated every time the download is clicked on the web interface. As Google Analytics is only meant to track events on a web page, other means of downloading the file will not generate an event. The event generated for tracking is as follows.

  * *Category:* 'Download - Downloaded'
  * *Action:* Url
  * *Label:* Labels

For more information on event tracking, see the Google Analytics page on [http://code.google.com/apis/analytics/docs/tracking/asyncTracking.html Event Tracking].