#summary Frequently asked questions about Git.
#labels Git

=Git FAQ=

== How do I reset my repository? ==

Project owners can click the "reset" link at the bottom of the checkout page. This is useful if you accidentally committed sensitive information to the repository or if you want to push from an unrelated repository.

== Is there a size limit on git repositories? ==
For all source control systems, there is a 4GiB repository size limit. For git, we are starting with a push size limit of 500 MiB. If you try to push a pack over 500 MiB, your push will fail. We hope to lift this limit.

== What version of Git is required? ==
At least 1.6.6.

== Where did my wiki go? ==
Project wikis are stored in version control. For Subversion projects, the wiki can be found in "/wiki" in the root of the repository, and for Git and Mercurial projects, the wiki is stored in the separate "wiki" repository. If you convert your project from one version control system to another, you will also need to copy any wiki files into the appropriate new location.

== Why does Git refuse to push, saying "everything up to date"? ==

`git push <remote>` with no additional arguments only pushes branches that exist in the remote already. If the remote repository is empty, nothing will be pushed. In this case, explicitly specify a branch to push, e.g. `git push <remote> master`.

== Can I access my repository over git:// or ssh:// instead of https:// ? ==
In order to take advantage of the advanced scalability and load-balancing features of Google's production servers, we are only able to accept incoming HTTP connections. We have no plans to support protocols other than the Git Smart HTTP protocol introduced in v1.6.6.

We do support both anonymous (read-only) and authenticated (read/write) access over HTTPS.