#summary Issue Tracker Data API Terms of Service
#labels Restrict-View-TrustedTester

<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>Issue Tracker Data API 
Terms of Service</b></font></h2>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>1. Your relationship with 
Google</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">1.1 Your use of Issue Tracker 
Data API (referred to as 'Service' in this document) is subject 
to the terms of a legal agreement between you and Google. 'Google' means Google Inc., whose principal place of business is at 1600 Amphitheatre 
Parkway, Mountain View, CA 94043, United States. This document explains 
how the agreement is made up, and sets out some of the terms of that 
agreement.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">1.2 Unless otherwise agreed 
in writing with Google, your agreement with Google will always include, 
at a minimum, the terms and conditions set out in this document. These 
are referred to below as the 'Terms.'</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">1.3 The Terms form a legally 
binding agreement between you and Google in relation to your use of 
the Service. It is important that you take the time to read them carefully. 
Collectively, this legal agreement is referred to below as the 'Terms.'</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>2. Accepting the Terms</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">2.1 In order to use the 
Service, you must first agree to the Terms. You may not use the Service 
if you do not accept the Terms.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">2.2 You can accept the 
Terms by:</font></p></ul>
<ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(A) clicking to accept 
or agree to the Terms, where this option is made available to you by 
Google in the user interface for any service; or</font></p></ul></ul>
<ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(B) by actually using 
the Service. In this case, you understand and agree that Google will 
treat your use of the Service as acceptance of the Terms from that point 
onwards.</font></p></ul></ul>

<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">2.3 You may not use the 
Service and may not accept the Terms if (a) you are not of legal age 
to form a binding contract with Google, or (b) you are a person barred 
from receiving the Service under the laws of the United States or other 
countries including the country in which you are resident or from which 
you use the Service.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">2.4 Before you continue, 
you should print off or save a local copy of the Terms for your records.</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>3. Language of the Terms</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">3.1 Where Google has provided 
you with a translation of the English language version of the Terms, 
then you agree that the translation is provided for your convenience 
only and that the English language versions of the Terms will govern 
your relationship with Google.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">3.2 If there is any contradiction 
between what the English language version of the Terms says and what 
a translation says, then the English language version shall take precedence.</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>4. Provision of the Service 
by Google</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">4.1 Google has subsidiaries 
and affiliated legal entities around the world ('Subsidiaries and 
Affiliates').  Sometimes, these companies will be providing 
the Service to you on behalf of Google itself. You acknowledge and agree 
that Subsidiaries and Affiliates will be entitled to provide the Service 
to you.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">4.2 Google is constantly 
innovating in order to provide the best possible experience for its 
users. You acknowledge and agree that the form and nature of the Service 
which Google provides may change from time to time without prior notice 
to you.</font></p></ul>

<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">4.3 As part of this continuing 
innovation, you acknowledge and agree that Google may stop (permanently 
or temporarily) providing the Service (or any features within the Service) 
to you or to users generally at Google's sole discretion, without prior 
notice to you. You may stop using the Service at any time. You do not 
need to specifically inform Google when you stop using the Service.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">4.4 You acknowledge and 
agree that if Google disables access to your account, you may be prevented 
from accessing the Service, your account details or any files or other 
content which is contained in your account.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">4.5 You acknowledge and 
agree that while Google may not currently have set a fixed upper limit 
on the number of transmissions you may send or receive through the Service 
or on the amount of storage space used for the provision of any Service, 
such fixed upper limits may be set by Google at any time, at Google's 
discretion.</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>5. Use of the Service by 
you</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">5.1 In order to access 
a certain Service, you may be required to provide information about 
yourself (such as identification or contact details) as part of the 
registration process for the Service, or as part of your continued use 
of the Service. You agree that any registration information you give 
to Google will always be accurate, correct and up to date.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">5.2 You agree to use the 
Service only for purposes that are permitted by (a) the Terms and (b) 
any applicable law, regulation, third-party terms of service, or generally 
accepted practices or guidelines in the relevant jurisdictions (including 
any laws regarding the export of data or software to and from the United 
States or other relevant countries).</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">5.3 You agree not to access 
(or attempt to access) the Service by any means other than through the 
interface that is provided by Google, unless you have been specifically 
allowed to do so in a separate agreement with Google.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">5.4 You agree that you 
will not engage in any activity that interferes with or disrupts the 
Service (or the servers and networks which are connected to the Service).</font></p></ul>

<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">5.5 You agree that if you 
use the Service to develop a service for other users, you will protect 
the privacy and legal rights of those users. If the users provide you 
with user names, passwords, or other login information or personal information, 
you must make the users aware that the information will be available 
to your application, and you must provide legally adequate privacy notice 
and protection for those users. If your application stores information 
submitted by users, it must do so securely. If the user provides you 
with Google Account information, you may only use that information to 
access the user's Google Account when, and for the limited purposes 
for which, the user has given you permission to do so.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">5.6 Unless you have been 
specifically permitted to do so in a separate agreement with Google, 
you agree that you will not reproduce, duplicate, copy, sell, trade 
or resell the Service for any purpose.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">5.7 You agree that you 
are solely responsible for (and that Google has no responsibility to 
you or to any third party for) any breach of your obligations under 
the Terms and for the consequences (including any loss or damage which 
Google may suffer) of any such breach.</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>6. Your passwords and account 
security</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">6.1 You agree and understand 
that you are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of passwords 
associated with any account you use to access the Service.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">6.2 Accordingly, you agree 
that you will be solely responsible to Google for all activities that 
occur under your account.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">6.3 If you become aware 
of any unauthorized use of your password or of your account, you agree 
to notify Google immediately.</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>7. Privacy and your personal 
information</b></font></h2>

<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">7.1 For information about 
Google's data protection practices, please read Google's privacy policy 
at </font><a href="http://www.google.com/privacy.html" target="_blank"><font color="#0000FF" size="3" face="Times New Roman"><u>http://www.google.com/privacy.html</u></font></a><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">. This policy explains how Google treats 
your personal information, and protects your privacy, when you use the 
Service.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">7.2 You agree to the use 
of your data in accordance with Google's privacy policies.</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>8. Content in the Service</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">8.1 You understand that 
all information (such as data files, written text, computer software, 
music, audio files or other sounds, photographs, videos or other images) 
which you may have access to as part of, or through your use of, the 
Service are the sole responsibility of the person from which such content 
originated. All such information is referred to below as the 'Content.'</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">8.2 Google reserves the 
right (but shall have no obligation) to pre-screen, review, flag, filter, 
modify, refuse or remove any or all Content from any Service. For some 
of the Service, Google may provide tools to filter out explicit sexual 
content. These tools include the SafeSearch preference settings (see </font><a href="http://www.google.com/help/customize.html#safe" target="_blank"><font color="#0000FF" size="3" face="Times New Roman"><u>http://www.google.com/help/customize.html#safe</u></font></a><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">). In addition, there are commercially 
available services and software to limit access to material that you 
may find objectionable.</font></p></ul>

<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">8.3 You understand that 
by using the Service you may be exposed to Content that you may find 
offensive, indecent or objectionable and that, in this respect, you 
use the Service at your own risk.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">8.4 You agree that you 
are solely responsible for (and that Google has no responsibility to 
you or to any third party for) any Content that you create, transmit 
or display while using the Service and for the consequences of your 
actions (including any loss or damage which Google may suffer) by doing 
so.</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>9. Proprietary rights</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">9.1 You acknowledge and 
agree that Google (or Google's licensors) own all legal right, title 
and interest in and to the Service, including any intellectual property 
rights which subsist in the Service (whether those rights happen to 
be registered or not, and wherever in the world those rights may exist).</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">9.2 Unless you have agreed 
otherwise in writing with Google, nothing in the Terms gives you a right 
to use any of Google's trade names, trade marks, service marks, logos, 
domain names, and other distinctive brand features.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">9.3 If you have been given 
an explicit right to use any of these brand features in a separate written 
agreement with Google, then you agree that your use of such features 
shall be in compliance with that agreement, any applicable provisions 
of the Terms, and Google's brand feature use guidelines as updated from 
time to time. These guidelines can be viewed online at </font><a href="http://www.google.com/permissions/guidelines.html" target="_blank"><font color="#0000FF" size="3" face="Times New Roman"><u>http://www.google.com/permissions/guidelines.html </u></font></a><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(or such other URL as Google may provide 
for this purpose from time to time).</font></p></ul>

<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">9.4 Google acknowledges 
and agrees that it obtains no right, title or interest from you (or 
your licensors) under these Terms in or to any Content that you create, 
submit, post, transmit or display on, or through, the Service, including 
any intellectual property rights which subsist in that Content (whether 
those rights happen to be registered or not, and wherever in the world 
those rights may exist). Unless you have agreed otherwise in writing 
with Google, you agree that you are responsible for protecting and enforcing 
those rights and that Google has no obligation to do so on your behalf.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">9.5 You agree that you 
shall not remove, obscure, or alter any proprietary rights notices (including 
copyright and trade mark notices) which may be affixed to or contained 
within the Service.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">9.6 Unless you have been 
expressly authorized to do so in writing by Google, you agree that in 
using the Service, you will not use any trade mark, service mark, trade 
name, logo of any company or organization in a way that is likely or 
intended to cause confusion about the owner or authorized user of such 
marks, names or logos.</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>10. License from Google</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">10.1 Google gives you a 
personal, worldwide, royalty-free, non-assignable and non-exclusive 
license to use the software provided to you by Google as part of the 
Services as provided to you by Google (referred to as the 'Software' 
below). This license is for the sole purpose of enabling you to use 
and enjoy the benefit of the Service as provided by Google, in the manner 
permitted by the Terms.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">10.2 You may not (and you 
may not permit anyone else to) copy, modify, create a derivative work 
of, reverse engineer, decompile or otherwise attempt to extract the 
source code of the Software or any part thereof, unless this is expressly 
permitted or required by law, or unless you have been specifically told 
that you may do so by Google, in writing (<i>e.g.</i>, through an open 
source software license).</font></p></ul>

<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">10.3 Unless Google has 
given you specific written permission to do so (<i>e.g.</i>, through 
an open source software license), you may not assign (or grant a sub-license 
of) your rights to use the Software, grant a security interest in or 
over your rights to use the Software, or otherwise transfer any part 
of your rights to use the Software.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">10.4 Use, reproduction 
and distribution of components of the Service released under an open 
source software license are governed solely by the terms of that open 
source software license.</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>11. Your Content</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">11.1 Google claims no ownership 
or control over Content (e.g., source code) written by you to be used 
with the Service. You retain copyright and any other rights you already 
hold in this code, and you are responsible for protecting those rights, 
as appropriate.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">11.2 If you choose to submit 
your Content to Google, you give Google a worldwide, royalty-free, and 
non-exclusive license to reproduce, adapt, modify, translate, publish, 
publicly perform, publicly display and distribute this Content.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">11.3 You agree that Google, 
in its sole discretion, may use your trade names, trademarks, service 
marks, logos, domain names and other distinctive brand features in presentations, 
marketing materials, customer lists, financial reports and Web site 
listings (including links to your website) for the purpose of advertising 
or publicizing your use of the Service.</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>12. Software updates</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">12.1 The Software which 
you use may automatically download and install updates from time to 
time from Google. These updates are designed to improve, enhance and 
further develop the Service and may take the form of bug fixes, enhanced 
functions, new software modules and completely new versions. You agree 
to receive such updates (and permit Google to deliver these to you) 
as part of your use of the Service.</font></p></ul>

<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>13. Ending your relationship 
with Google</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">13.1 The Terms will continue 
to apply until terminated by either you or Google as set out below.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">13.2 You may terminate 
your legal agreement with Google by discontinuing your use of the Service 
at any time.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">13.3 Google may, at any 
time, terminate its legal agreement with you if:</font></p></ul>
<ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(A) you have breached 
any provision of the Terms (or have acted in manner which clearly shows 
that you do not intend to, or are unable to comply with the provisions 
of the Terms); or</font></p></ul></ul>
<ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(B) Google is required 
to do so by law (for example, where the provision of the Service to 
you is, or becomes, unlawful); or</font></p></ul></ul>
<ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(C) the partner with 
whom Google offered the Service to you has terminated its relationship 
with Google or ceased to offer the Service to you; or</font></p></ul></ul>
<ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(D) Google is transitioning 
to no longer providing the Service to users in the country in which 
you are resident or from which you use the service; or</font></p></ul></ul>
<ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(E) the provision of 
the Service to you by Google is, in Google's opinion, no longer commercially 
viable.</font></p></ul></ul>

<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">13.4 Nothing in this Section 
shall affect Google's rights regarding provision of Service under Section 
4 of the Terms.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">13.5 When these Terms come 
to an end, all of the legal rights, obligations and liabilities that 
you and Google have benefited from, been subject to (or which have accrued 
over time whilst the Terms have been in force) or which are expressed 
to continue indefinitely, shall be unaffected by this cessation, and 
the provisions of Sections 14, 15 and Paragraph 19.7 shall continue 
to apply to such rights, obligations and liabilities indefinitely.</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>14. EXCLUSION OF WARRANTIES</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">14.1 NOTHING IN THESE TERMS, 
INCLUDING SECTIONS 14 AND 15, SHALL EXCLUDE OR LIMIT GOOGLE'S WARRANTY 
OR LIABILITY FOR LOSSES WHICH MAY NOT BE LAWFULLY EXCLUDED OR LIMITED 
BY APPLICABLE LAW. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF 
CERTAIN WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OR THE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY 
FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE CAUSED BY NEGLIGENCE, BREACH OF CONTRACT OR BREACH 
OF IMPLIED TERMS, OR INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES. ACCORDINGLY, 
ONLY THE LIMITATIONS WHICH ARE LAWFUL IN YOUR JURISDICTION WILL APPLY 
TO YOU AND OUR LIABILITY WILL BE LIMITED TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED 
BY LAW.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">14.2 YOU EXPRESSLY UNDERSTAND 
AND AGREE THAT YOUR USE OF THE SERVICES IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK AND THAT 
THE SERVICES ARE PROVIDED 'AS IS' AND 'AS AVAILABLE'.</font></p></ul>

<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">14.3 IN PARTICULAR, GOOGLE, 
ITS SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES, AND ITS LICENSORS DO NOT REPRESENT 
OR WARRANT TO YOU THAT:</font></p></ul>
<ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(A) YOUR USE OF THE 
SERVICE WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS,</font></p></ul></ul>
<ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(B) YOUR USE OF THE 
SERVICE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, TIMELY, SECURE OR FREE FROM ERROR,</font></p></ul></ul>
<ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(C) ANY INFORMATION 
OBTAINED BY YOU AS A RESULT OF YOUR USE OF THE SERVICES WILL BE ACCURATE 
OR RELIABLE, AND</font></p></ul></ul>
<ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(D) THAT DEFECTS IN 
THE OPERATION OR FUNCTIONALITY OF ANY SOFTWARE PROVIDED TO YOU AS PART 
OF THE SERVICES WILL BE CORRECTED.</font></p></ul></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">14.4 ANY MATERIAL DOWNLOADED 
OR OTHERWISE OBTAINED THROUGH THE USE OF THE SERVICE IS DONE AT YOUR 
OWN DISCRETION AND RISK AND THAT YOU WILL BE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR 
ANY DAMAGE TO YOUR COMPUTER SYSTEM OR OTHER DEVICE OR LOSS OF DATA THAT 
RESULTS FROM THE DOWNLOAD OF ANY SUCH MATERIAL.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">14.5 NO ADVICE OR INFORMATION, 
WHETHER ORAL OR WRITTEN, OBTAINED BY YOU FROM GOOGLE OR THROUGH OR FROM 
THE SERVICE SHALL CREATE ANY WARRANTY NOT EXPRESSLY STATED IN THE TERMS.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">14.6 GOOGLE FURTHER EXPRESSLY 
DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, WHETHER EXPRESS 
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND 
CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND 
NON-INFRINGEMENT.</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>15. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY</b></font></h2>

<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">15.1 SUBJECT TO OVERALL 
PROVISION IN PARAGRAPH 14.1 ABOVE, YOU EXPRESSLY UNDERSTAND AND AGREE 
THAT GOOGLE, ITS SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES, AND ITS LICENSORS SHALL 
NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR:</font></p></ul>
<ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(A) ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, 
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL CONSEQUENTIAL OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES WHICH MAY BE 
INCURRED BY YOU, HOWEVER CAUSED AND UNDER ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY. THIS 
SHALL INCLUDE, BUT NOT BE LIMITED TO, ANY LOSS OF PROFIT (WHETHER INCURRED 
DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY), ANY LOSS OF GOODWILL OR BUSINESS REPUTATION, 
ANY LOSS OF DATA SUFFERED, COST OF PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR 
SERVICES, OR OTHER INTANGIBLE LOSS;</font></p></ul></ul>
<ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(B) ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE 
WHICH MAY BE INCURRED BY YOU, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OR DAMAGE 
AS A RESULT OF:</font></p></ul></ul>
<ul><ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(I) ANY RELIANCE 
PLACED BY YOU ON THE COMPLETENESS, ACCURACY OR EXISTENCE OF ANY ADVERTISING, 
OR AS A RESULT OF ANY RELATIONSHIP OR TRANSACTION BETWEEN YOU AND ANY 
ADVERTISER OR SPONSOR WHOSE ADVERTISING APPEARS ON THE SERVICE;</font></p></ul></ul></ul>
<ul><ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(II) ANY CHANGES 
WHICH GOOGLE MAY MAKE TO THE SERVICE, OR FOR ANY PERMANENT OR TEMPORARY 
CESSATION IN THE PROVISION OF THE SERVICE (OR ANY FEATURES WITHIN THE 
SERVICE);</font></p></ul></ul></ul>
<ul><ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(III) THE DELETION 
OF, CORRUPTION OF, OR FAILURE TO STORE, ANY CONTENT AND OTHER COMMUNICATIONS 
DATA MAINTAINED OR TRANSMITTED BY OR THROUGH YOUR USE OF THE SERVICE;</font></p></ul></ul></ul>
<ul><ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(IV) YOUR FAILURE 
TO PROVIDE GOOGLE WITH ACCURATE ACCOUNT INFORMATION; OR</font></p></ul></ul></ul>
<ul><ul><ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">(V) YOUR FAILURE 
TO KEEP YOUR PASSWORD OR ACCOUNT DETAILS SECURE AND CONFIDENTIAL.</font></p></ul></ul></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">15.2 THE LIMITATIONS ON 
GOOGLE'S LIABILITY TO YOU IN PARAGRAPH 15.1 ABOVE SHALL APPLY WHETHER 
OR NOT GOOGLE HAS BEEN ADVISED OF OR SHOULD HAVE BEEN AWARE OF THE POSSIBILITY 
OF ANY SUCH LOSSES ARISING.</font></p></ul>

<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>16. Copyright and trade 
mark policies</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">16.1 It is Google's policy 
to respond to notices of alleged copyright infringement that comply 
with applicable international intellectual property law (including, 
in the United States, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act) and to terminating 
the accounts of repeat infringers. Details of Google's policy can be 
found at </font><a href="http://www.google.com/dmca.html" target="_blank"><font color="#0000FF" size="3" face="Times New Roman"><u>http://www.google.com/dmca.html</u></font></a><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">16.2 Google operates a 
trade mark complaints procedure in respect of Google's advertising business, 
details of which can be found at </font><a href="http://www.google.com/tm_complaint.html" target="_blank"><font color="#0000FF" size="3" face="Times New Roman"><u>http://www.google.com/tm_complaint.html</u></font></a><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">.</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>17. Other content</b></font></h2>

<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">17.1 The Service may include 
hyperlinks to other web sites or content or resources. Google may have 
no control over any web sites or resources which are provided by companies 
or persons other than Google.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">17.2 You acknowledge and 
agree that Google is not responsible for the availability of any such 
external sites or resources, and does not endorse any advertising, products 
or other materials on or available from such web sites or resources.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">17.3 You acknowledge and 
agree that Google is not liable for any loss or damage which may be 
incurred by you as a result of the availability of those external sites 
or resources, or as a result of any reliance placed by you on the completeness, 
accuracy or existence of any advertising, products or other materials 
on, or available from, such web sites or resources.</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>18. Changes to the Terms</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">18.1 Due to things like 
changes to the law or changes to functionality offered through the  
Service, Google may need to change these Terms from time to time.  You should 
look at the Terms regularly.  We’ll post notice of the modified Terms within, 
or through, the Service.  The changes will become effective 7 days 
after they are posted except if the changes apply to new functionality 
in which case they will be effective immediately.  If you do not agree 
to the modified Terms for the Service, please stop using the Service.</font></p></ul>
<h2><font size="3" face="Times New Roman"><b>19. General legal terms</b></font></h2>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">19.1 Sometimes when you 
use the Service, you may (as a result of, or through your use of the 
Service) use a service or download a piece of software, or purchase 
goods, which are provided by another person or company. Your use of 
these other services, software or goods may be subject to separate terms 
between you and the company or person concerned. If so, the Terms do 
not affect your legal relationship with these other companies or individuals.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">19.2 The Terms constitute 
the whole legal agreement between you and Google and govern your use 
of the Service (but excluding any service which Google may provide to 
you under a separate written agreement), and completely replace any 
prior agreements between you and Google in relation to the Service.</font></p></ul>

<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">19.3 You agree that Google 
may provide you with notices, including those regarding changes to the 
Terms, by email, regular mail, or postings on the Service.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">19.4 You agree that if 
Google does not exercise or enforce any legal right or remedy which 
is contained in the Terms (or which Google has the benefit of under 
any applicable law), this will not be taken to be a formal waiver of 
Google's rights and that those rights or remedies will still be available 
to Google.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">19.5 If any court of law, 
having the jurisdiction to decide on this matter, rules that any provision 
of these Terms is invalid, then that provision will be removed from 
the Terms without affecting the rest of the Terms. The remaining provisions 
of the Terms will continue to be valid and enforceable.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">19.6 You acknowledge and 
agree that each member of the group of companies of which Google is 
the parent shall be third party beneficiaries to the Terms and that 
such other companies shall be entitled to directly enforce, and rely 
upon, any provision of the Terms which confers a benefit on (or rights 
in favor of) them. Other than this, no other person or company shall 
be third party beneficiaries to the Terms.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">19.7 The Terms, and your 
relationship with Google under the Terms, shall be governed by the laws 
of the State of California without regard to its conflict of laws provisions. 
You and Google agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the 
courts located within the county of Santa Clara, California to resolve 
any legal matter arising from the Terms. Notwithstanding this, you agree 
that Google shall still be allowed to apply for injunctive remedies 
(or an equivalent type of urgent legal relief) in any jurisdiction.</font></p></ul>
<ul><p><font size="3" face="Times New Roman">September 17, 2009</font></p></ul>