#summary Information about Google Code's read-only transition

As [http://google-opensource.blogspot.com/2015/03/farewell-to-google-code.html previously announced], most of Google Code will become read-only on August 24th, 2015.

We are still working with Google-affiliated projects (e.g., [http://code.google.com/p/chromium /p/chromium] and [http://code.google.com/p/android /p/android]) to get them migrated to other tools and make their projects read-only by the end of the year. These projects will remain read-write until we can transition all their data off of Google Code.

=What will happen to the data?=
Google Code data will still be accessible, just read-only. You will be able to search for and browse project issues, sync source data, and so on. The [http://code.google.com/export-to-github/ Export to GitHub] feature will still work as advertised.

However, during this time you will not be able to modify projects. For example: create new issues, push code changes, or even modify admin settings.  If you need some administrative action taken, such as deleting a project or setting up an automatic redirect URL, please [mailto:google-code-shutdown@google.com contact us]. (Instructions will also be linked from the `/admin` page of for project administrators.)

=How long will the data remain available?=
Google Code's data will remain online for a long time.

Until January 2016 the Google Code Project Hosting service as it exists today will continue to be available. And you will still be able to use version control clients like `git`, `hg`, or `svn` to access project data.

After January 2016 you will no longer be able to access source code from a version control client; however project data will still be available. We will also be offering project data in more convenient formats for export such as JSON and .zip files. Archived project data will be available throughout 2016 and beyond.

Note that only _public_ data will be archived. If your project has private data, such as issues with the `Restrict-View-*` label, you will no longer be able to browse those project resources next year. (Public downloads, issues, wikis, etc. will be available.)

Most importantly, project URLs (e.g. http://code.google.com/p/vim) will continue to work, although links to raw source code like https://vim.googlecode.com/hg/README.txt will not. But again, Google Code will continue to work as normal until at least January 2016.

=Questions?=
If you have any questions, please contact [mailto:google-code-shutdown@google.com google-code-shutdown@google.com].