#summary Announcements of the latest project hosting features

Welcome to the What's New page for project hosting on Google Code. Here you'll find descriptions of our latest improvements to our collaborative development environment.

= Dec 2007 =

== Replace a project tab with a wiki page ==

To keep our project hosting service simple and easy to use, we only offer one version control system, one wiki, one download system, and one issue tracker.  These tools are designed to be flexible to fit the needs and best practices of most small- to medium-sized open source projects. However, we know that one size does not fit all: some projects have existing tools hosted elsewhere, or simply prefer to use other google products or tools hosted on another site.

Now project owners can write a simple wiki page giving end-users instructions on how to get to your external tool, and then replace the corresponding project tab with that wiki page.  That wiki page can link to the other site, or you can customize the landing pages for our hosted tools by linking to specific pages within your own project.  And, undesired project tabs can be hidden from users, for example a documentation project you might not need the Downloads tab.


= Sept 2007 =

== Use any Google Account, not just Gmail accounts ==

Previously, we required that all project owners and members use [http://www.gmail.com/ Gmail] accounts.  That restriction helped us manage certain types of spam, but it inconvenienced many legitimate users as well. We've made improvements to the way that we manage the site, and can now pass on the convenience to users.  

Project owners and members can now be specified with the full email address of any Google Account. 

= July 2007 =

== Easier way to get to project home pages ==

Shorter, simpler URLs look better and are easier to remember. When developers put their heart into a project they want it to make the best first impression, which is often in the form of a URL in an email or on another web page.

We've always valued clean URLs for project home pages, and have used `http://code.google.com/p/PROJECTNAME` since we started offering project hosting.  Now, projects can also be reached via an even cleaner URL: `http://PROJECTNAME.googlecode.com`.

== Grid view of issues ==

When projects start, they have a few defect reports and requests for enhancements.  A simple list of issues is good enough: a developer picks some issue, solves it, and closes it.  But, as projects grow in scope, the number of open issues can grow and it can be hard to know which issues to work on first.  Sorting and filtering the list can help developers understand the set of open issues, but now there is an easier way.

The grid view of issues uses rows and columns to lay out issues according to any two attributes.  For example, [http://code.google.com/p/support/issues/list?can=2&q=milestone&sort=&mode=grid&y=Milestone&x=Priority&cells=tiles&nobtn=Update support issues by milestone and priority]. The grid view can also easily show the number of open issues associated with each component, or the number of issues owned by each project member.

== Improvements to list views ==

Project artifacts in your project workspace have a variety of built-in attributes, and can be labeled with Key-Value pairs as user-defined attributes.  These attributes can be used as column headings in any list view as a way to bring out and organize information according to the structure that makes the most sense for that project.

Several improvements were made to the list views to help project owners use the power of user-defined attributes more fully:

   * Project owners can now define default columns and sorting in the issue tracker, wiki page list, and downloads list.
   * End-user list configuration is now kept when the user edits an issue
   * The number of items displayed per page has been increased to 100
   * We now display the entire summary of artifacts, even it it would be so long that it word-wraps

== Clarification of the purpose of stars ==

When a user clicks the star icon on an issue, he or she is indicating an interest in that issue.  We make it easy for users to search the issues that they have starred.  Also, users will receive email notification of changes to issues that they have starred.  And, everyone who visits the project can see the number of users who have starred each issue.

We have clarified the email notification aspect of stars by adding tool-tips to the stars and a reminder that starring causes notification of changes to the issue detail page.

== Issue tracker comments ==

Sometimes a user leaves a comment on an issue that is irrelevant or which contains information like a password that should not be displayed to other users.  It can happen to any of us if we accidentally comment on the wrong issue or paste in a big chunk of text.  

Now, those unwanted comments can be deleted or undeleted by the user who entered them or any project member.

== Wiki page comments ==

Wiki's are community-owned knowledge-bases: they should allow contributions from anyone who notices a problem or wants to add valuable information, but they can also lose some of their value if they are vandalized, if they become disorganized, or if incorrect information is added.

The project wiki feature that we offer now strikes a balance between these trade-offs by allowing any logged in use to append a comment to the wiki pages.  Project members may then review the comments and choose to:
  * Leave them as useful comments
  * Incorporate them into the page, and delete the comment since it would be redundant
  * Delete any valueless comments

== Google Analytics integration ==

Open source projects are all about collaboration between project members and the users of the software being developed.  To provide the most useful software to your users, you might want to know simply how many potential users have visited your project workspace, which countries they come from, which browsers they use, and which of your wiki pages they have viewed.

Now all those questions can be answered.  Project owners may simply sign up for [http://www.google.com/analytics Google Analytics] and enter an analytics profile number into the project admin page.  Tracking data can be viewed on the Google Analytics site about 24 hours later.

== Bug fixes ==

We continue to work hard to improve the quality and reliability of the project hosting service by finding and fixing defects.  Please check our current [http://code.google.com/p/support/issues/list support issues], star the issues that are most important to you, and report and new defects that you find.

= April 2007 =

== Autolinking of issues ==

Software development is all about putting ideas into working software.  It turns out that the software created has a lot of interconnections, and the process of creating that software requires even more connections, dependencies, and references between all the information produced as part of the project.  Google code hosting has always offered the developers the ability to link web pages in subversion, and wiki pages.  We also encourage the use of Google groups or other mailing list archives that make past messages accessible via a link.  And, every issue has had a clear URL that can be linked to, but only by specifying the full link.

Now, you can easily and automatically link to any issue from another issue comment or from a wiki page.  Just write "issue N" or "issue #N" and it will be linked to the corresponding issue in your project.  If that issue is closed, the link text will be crossed out.  Moving your mouse over the link shows the summary of the issue.
 
 
 
 